UNEEK Presenter Version 0.6b

Version 0.6b fixes a bug with mounting 2GB SD cards.

Version 0.6a fixes a couple bugs discovered with mounting and reading the new 256MB Terasic SD cards that began shipping in NEEK units in May 2008.

For a more verbose description of how this program works, please read the extended-info.txt file in the application directory.

This application is intended to allow you to run PowerPoint like presentations out the VGA interface on the NEEK board.  You can take PowerPoint presentations and save them off as JPEG files, load them up on your SD Card and plug it into your NEEK board.  Run this application and it will allow you to choose which directory of JPEG images on your SD Card you wish to present, and then it provides a user interface to control and interact with the presentation.  See the HOWTO sections below for information on creating UNEEK Presenter compatible presentations.

The GUI in this application can be controlled by touching the touch panel or by pressing the BUTTON 1 and BUTTON 2 push buttons on the 3C25 board.  You can also plug a PS/2 keyboard into the NEEK and control this application thru the PS/2 keyboard input.  I've also tested this with the Honeywell Power Presenter, The Wireless PowerPoint Remote, which happens to have a USB and PS/2 output and an RF remote that works up to 150 feet away.  You can control the entire application with the wireless remote if you like.  Here is a link to the Honeywell remote http://www.powerremote.com/Prod_PPrf.htm, it's available at various websites for around $90USD.

The expectation of this application is that the JPEG files are in a 1024x768 format for display on the VGA output.  See details below for creating these using PowerPoint.

HOWTO CONTROL GUI

The GUI control via touch screen should be self evident, touch the GUI elements to activate them.

The GUI control via push button works like this:
BUTTON 1 pressed - increment thru the GUI elements
BUTTON 2 pressed - decrement thru the GUI elements
BUTTON 1 and 2 pressed - select the GUI element

The GUI control via PS/2 keyboard maps into the push button structure like this:
PAGE UP - BUTTON 1
PAGE DOWN - BUTTON 2
B - BUTTON 1 and BUTTON 2

When you're in presentation mode, the push button control is modified a bit and the PS/2 mappings act accordingly:
BUTTON 1 pressed - advance back one slide
BUTTON 2 pressed - advance forward one slide
BUTTON 1 and 2 pressed once - black screen
BUTTON 1 and 2 pressed twice quickly - end presentation

When you're in slideshow mode, the push button control is modified a bit and the PS/2 mappings act accordingly:
BUTTON 1 pressed - advance back one slide
BUTTON 2 pressed - advance forward one slide
BUTTON 1 and 2 pressed - end presentation

How can you create properly formatted slide files?
Simply open a PowerPoint presentation and choose "Save As" and then for "Save As Type" select JPEG as the file format.  PowerPoint will proceed to save your slides out as JPEG files named precisely the way this application would like to see them, all in their own new directory.  Put this directory on your SD Card, wherever you like.

How can you get PowerPoint to create 1024x768 sized JPEGs?
Open a PowerPoint presentation and choose "Page Setup", then in the "Slides sized for:" menu choose "Custom".  If your screen resolution setup in the system is 96dpi, then the custom dimensions you want are Width = 10.67" and Height = 8.0".  Under a typical Windows operating environment it assumes the display resolution is 96 dots per inch, so if we want 1024 dots, we need 1024 / 96 inches, and so on for the other axis.  If your system is configured for 72dpi, then you may want to plug in values for 1024 / 72 inches and 768 / 72 inches.  You should open the JPEG files created by PowerPoint in some image editor like Paint, to ensure that the dimensions that were output are indeed 1024x768.  It is OK if your image is smaller than 1024x768, however, if it is larger than 1024x768, this program may dramatically scale it down to fit the display with a very crude scaling decimator.

